# Ingredient-Based-Food-Recommendation-System
In the last few decades, online food ordering platforms have gained attention to many consumers as these platforms have made people’s life easy and convenient. On the other hand, as information accessibility has increased dramatically, it is quite difficult to reach the right information that is relevant to one user. To make user’s life easy in the online world, recommendation engines have become popular over the online business market. The goal of this research project is to build and evaluate a food recommendation system using data science methodology. To be more specific, the recommendation system will be able to identify a user’s personalized food taste considering his/her last ordered food in ingredient’s level. The implemented recommendation system will find foods with similar ingredients for recommendation for a queried food item which is considered as the user's last order. To accomplish the task, Natural Language Processing(NLP) techniques are being applied. As the main focus point of the project is content of the foods, i.e ingredients, thus a Content Based Filtering method is being utilized where the system was built over a Vector Space Model.  Each ingredient of food items are being treated as terms for TF-IDF weighting. Once TF-IDF weightings are measured for each ingredient, then similarity algorithms were implemented over the TF-IDF matrix to find the most N number of similar food items for recommendations. Here three similarity algorithms were used - Cosines Similarity, Euclidean Distance and Pearson Correlation. In the evaluation process the rank for the recommended food items were compared between three similarity algorithms with three predefined test datasets. However, at the end there was not much significant deviation found in recommended results for these tree similarity algorithms. 
